Welcome back everyone to part one of our lecture series of group by group by allows us to aggregate
columns per some category.
Let's first explore this idea of a simple example and then we'll go over the sequel syntax let's imagine
we have the following table we have some sort of category column here we have A's B's and C's and then
some data value associated with them such as 10 5 2 etc..
We can imagine that maybe the category here stands for some sort of company and the data value is how
much we sold to that company.
So we had one deal of ten dollars for Company A.
Later on we had a five dollar deal for Company A then a two dollar deal for Company B and so on.
So when we actually performing a group buy there's a couple of key things to consider.
The first is this category column.
We need to choose a categorical column to perform the group buy on that is to say categorical columns
are not continuous or at least we're treating them as not continuous for the sake of the group.
By now something to keep in mind is these can actually still be numerical such as cabin class categories
on a ship.
Class 1 2 3 and so on and you should also keep in mind that they actually may appear continuous but
you could treat them as a category.
For example if you recall to our DVD rental database we have different rental rates available such as
99 cents one ninety nine to ninety nine etc. We could treat each of those rental rates as its own separate
class or own separate category.
So just because something is being treated as categorical doesn't necessarily mean it's not numeric.
And we're going to see different examples of that in the next lecture when we actually program out in
sequel some group by statements bullets first go through the idea of what a group buy actually does
and how it relates to aggregate function calls.
So the way a group buy operates is the following We have already chosen our categorical column then
we're going to do is essentially split this table up on a per category basis.
So we have everything that went with Category A then B then C and then we have the corresponding data
values.
Recall that an aggregate function takes in multiple values and reduces them back down to one single
value such as the sum function can take in all these values per category or grouped by category and
then return back there some.
So the total sum of sales to category eight was 15 6 to B and an 18 to C and we could do this with any
of the aggregate functions that we just learned about.
For example we could take the average data value per category seven point five three and nine.
We can even do something like a count per category.
In this case there was two rows per category.
So they're all the same 2 2 and 2 so it's actually explore the general syntax.
So the most basic group I call looks like this.
We select some sort of category column or something we've deemed to be categorical and then we choose
to perform some aggregate function on the data column.
So A.G. here is just some place holder for some aggregate function on some data column.
We select it from the table and then immediately after that we call grouped by that category.
Column so the group by clause must appear right after a frum statement or right after a where statement
so if you want before you do the group by you can filter things out using a where statement.
So here we see just grouping everything together by the category.
But if we wanted to before we actually execute that group by we could have done a where statement essentially
saying something like where category column is not equal to a essentially ignoring all the eight categories
before we went ahead and did the group by.
So the thing keep in mind is the group by either has come directly after a frum statement or directly
after a where statement.
Now one of the most important things to realize when learning about group by is the following in the
actual select statement columns must either have an aggregate function call on them or be themselves
in the group by call.
So what does that actually mean.
This is where beginners often get tripped up in learning about group by so pay close attention to this
one so if we're using a group by statement then if we're selecting that particular column just by itself
it must be included in the group by statement.
So notice here I've decided to select the category column.
Then that particular column must also appear in the group by statement.
The only exception to this is if I'm calling some sort of aggregate function on the column itself.
So in this case because I'm aggregating something on the data column it does not need to be included
in the group by statement so let's imagine a different example we can have something like select company
division and then some of sales so you can imagine we had three columns in this table one were different
companies and then the divisions within that company and then different sales per division per company.
So what we're doing here is again notice that if I'm selecting a column such as company and division
then they must also appear in the group by statement.
So that means we can grouped by multiple columns and we essentially just decide the order to group buy
in a very similar fashion that we decided.
The ordering of different columns when we learned about the order by statement.
So again here I'm selecting column and division since they don't have an aggregate function.
They must appear in the group by CLOs notice again the sales doesn't appear in the group by statement
which means it must have an aggregate function associated with it.
So essentially what this is returning is the total sum of sales per division per company.
And keep in mind that the where statements should not refer to the aggregation result.
So you shouldn't be trying to do any filtering using a where statement on some of sales in this case.
Later on we are going to learn how to do that using the having statement to filter on those results.
But for right now if you are using a where statement in conjunction with a group buy that we're statement
shouldn't make a reference to what is being aggregated such as sum of sales that is what the having
statements for that we're going to learn about later.
So that is what we're doing here is we're saying select company division some of sales from finance
table where a division is in marketing and transport essentially filtering out the divisions before
we actually perform the group buy on the company end division.
And again notice here company in division appear in the group by sales is not because it has the aggregate
function associated with it Here's another example that if you want to sort the results based on the
aggregate you have to make sure to reference the entire function.
So in a simpler example here let's say we were wanted to sum the sales total sales per company then
we could select company some of those sales from the table we would group by company and then the other
thing to notice here is if I actually wanted to order by the sum of sales I don't just say ordered by
sales I have to say order by the sum of sales.
So notice that whatever I'm ordering by that total statement should exist somewhere in that select CLOs
and then you can add something like limit 5 which would essentially show you kind of the top 5 sales
or bottom 5 sales depending if you did ascending or descending order per company.
All right.
So I know we just went over a lot of this and it's best learned through practice.
So I'll see you in part two in the next lecture where we actually practice on our own DVD rental database.
I'll see you there.